README.md, before:

# Assignment 3: Transformer Architecture

We will continue adding modules to miniTorch framework. 
In this assignment, students will implement a decoder-only transformer architecture (GPT-2), train it on machine translation task (IWSLT14 German-English), and benchmark their implementation.


## Homework Setup

Clone the repository for the homework:  
[https://github.com/llmsystem/llmsys_f25_hw3](https://github.com/llmsystem/llmsys_f25_hw3)

## PSC Guide
For guidance on using PSC resources, refer to the following document:  
[PSC Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FzNWon1GePQNCqjx3tiXU-FQtxeBDruvjwORWRHhoVs/edit?usp=sharing)


## Setting up Your Code

### Step 1: Install Requirements
Ensure you have Python 3.8+ installed. Install the required dependencies with the following commands:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.extra.txt
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Step 2: Install miniTorch
Install miniTorch in editable mode:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

---

### Issue: Aborted (core dumped) due to nvcc and NVIDIA Driver Incompatibility with PyTorch

If you encounter an **"Aborted (core dumped)"** error while running PyTorch, it is likely due to an **incompatibility between `nvcc` and the NVIDIA driver version** used by PyTorch. This happens when:
- `nvcc` (the CUDA compiler) is **newer than** the supported CUDA version in the NVIDIA driver.
- PyTorch is built for a different CUDA version than the one installed.

To **fix this issue, downgrade CUDA** to match the **highest supported version by your NVIDIA driver** and install the corresponding PyTorch version.

#### Solution: Downgrade CUDA and Avoid Core Dump Errors

One of the solutions is to install **CUDA 12.1**, which has compatible PyTorch builds.

##### 1. Uninstall Any Existing PyTorch Versions
```bash
pip uninstall torch torchvision torchaudio -y
```

##### 2. Load CUDA 12.1 Module
Since CUDA 12.1 is available on your system, load it by running:
```bash
module purge
module load cuda-12.1
```
Verify the CUDA version:
```bash
nvcc --version
nvidia-smi
```

##### 3. Install PyTorch for CUDA 12.1
```bash
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu121
```

##### 4. Verify Installation
Run the following Python script:
```python
import torch
print("PyTorch Version:", torch.__version__)
print("CUDA Available:", torch.cuda.is_available())
print("CUDA Version:", torch.version.cuda)
```
If `torch.cuda.is_available()` returns `False`, **recheck the CUDA installation**.




### Step 3: Copy Files from Assignment 1 & 2
Copy the following files from Assignment 1 to the specified locations:

- `autodiff.py` → `minitorch/autodiff.py`
- `run_sentiment.py` → `project/run_sentiment_linear.py`

**Note**: The suffix for the sentiment file is slightly different: `"_linear"`.

Copy the CUDA kernel file from Assignment 2:

- `combine.cu` → `src/combine.cu`

However, do not copy the entire `combine.cu` file. Instead, extract and transfer `only` the implementations of the following functions:

- `MatrixMultiplyKernel`
- `mapKernel`
- `zipKernel`
- `reduceKernel`

### Step 4: Changes in Assignment 3
We have made some changes in `combine.cu` and `cuda_kernel_ops.py` for Assignment 3 compared with Assignment 2 :

- GPU memory allocation, deallocation, and memory copying operations have been relocated from `cuda_kernel_ops.py` to `combine.cu`, covering both host-to-device and device-to-host transfers.
- The datatype for `Tensor._tensor._storage` has been changed from `numpy.float64` to `numpy.float32`.

### Step 5: Compile CUDA Kernels
Compile your CUDA kernels by running:

```bash
bash compile_cuda.sh
``` 

--- 


## Implementing a Decoder-only Transformer Model

You will be implementing a Decoder-only Transformer model in `modules_transformer.py`. This will require you to first implement additional modules in `modules_basic.py`, similar to the Linear module from Assignment 1.

We will recreate the GPT-2 architecture as described in [Language Models are Unsupervised Multitask Learners](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/language-models-are-unsupervised-multitask).

**Please read the implementation details section of the README file before starting.**



## Problem 1: Implementing Tensor Functions (20 pts)

You need to implement the following functions in `minitorch/nn.py`. Additional details are provided in the `README.md` and each function's docstring:

- **`logsumexp`**
- **`softmax_loss`**  

  The formula for the softmax loss (softmax + cross-entropy) is:  
  $$
\ell(z, y) = \log\left(\sum_{i=1}^k \exp(z_i)\right) - z_y
  $$

  Refer to [slide 5 here](https://llmsystem.github.io/llmsystem2024spring/assets/files/llmsys-03-autodiff-d3f8a17139dbf41fe16150b3d86ccdce.pdf) for more details.

### Softmax Loss Function

The input to the softmax loss(softmax + cross entropy) function consists of:

- **`logits`**: A (minibatch, C) tensor, where each row represents a sample containing raw logits before applying softmax.
- **`target`**: A (minibatch,) tensor, where each row corresponds to the class of a sample.  

You should utilize a combination of `logsumexp`, `one_hot`, and other tensor functions to compute this efficiently. (Our solution is only 3 lines long.)

**Note**:  
The function should return results without setting [`reduction=None`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss.html). The resulting output shape should be (minibatch,).


### Check implementation

After correctly implementing the functions, you should be able to pass tests marked as
logsumexp and softmax_loss by running:
```bash
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_logsumexp_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_softmax_loss_student"
```

## Problem 2: Implementing Basic Modules (20 pts)

Here are the modules you need to implement in `minitorch/modules_basic.py`:

1. **`Linear`**: You can use your implementation from Assignment 1 but adapt it slightly to account for the new `backend` argument.
   
2. **`Dropout`**: Applies dropout.  
   **Note**: If the flag `self.training` is false, do not zero out any values in the input tensor. To match the autograder seed, please use `np.random.binomial` to generate a mask.

3. **`LayerNorm1d`**: Applies layer normalization to a 2D tensor.

4. **`Embedding`**: Maps one-hot word vectors from a dictionary of fixed size to embeddings.

### Check implementation

After correctly implementing the functions, you should be able to pass tests marked as
linear, dropout, layernorm, and embedding by running:
```bash
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_linear_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_dropout_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_layernorm_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_embedding_student"
```

## Problem 3: Implementing a Decoder-only Transformer Language Model (40 pts)

Finally, you'll implement the GPT-2 architecture in `minitorch/modules_transformer.py`, utilizing four modules and your earlier work:

- **`MultiHeadAttention`**: Implements masked multi-head attention.
- **`FeedForward`**: Implements the feed-forward operation. [We have implemented this for you.]
- **`TransformerLayer`**: Implements a transformer layer with the pre-LN architecture.
- **`DecoderLM`**: Implements the full model with input and positional embeddings.

### MultiHeadAttention

GPT-2 implements multi-head attention, meaning each $\(K, Q, V\)$ tensor formed from $\(X\)$ is partitioned into $\(h\)$ heads. The self-attention operation is performed for each batch and head, and the output is reshaped to the correct shape. The final output is passed through an output projection layer.

1. Projecting $\(X\)$ into $\(Q, K^T, V\)$ in the `project_to_query_key_value` function.

    In the `project_to_query_key_value` function, the $\(K, Q, V\)$ matrices are formed by projecting the input $\(X \in R^{B×S×D}\)$ where $\(B\)$ is the batch size, $\(S\)$ is the sequence length, and $\(D\)$ the hidden dimension. Formally, let $\(h\)$ be the number of heads, $\(D\)$ be the dimension of the input, and $\(D_h\)$ be the dimension of each head where $\(D = h × D_h\)$:

    - $\(X \in R^{B×S×D}\)$ gets projected to $\(Q, K, V \in R^{B×S×D}\)$ *(Note: We could actually do this with a single layer and split the output into 3.)*
    - $\(Q \in R^{B×S×(h×D_h)}\) gets unraveled to \(Q \in R^{B×S×h×D_h}\)$
    - $\(Q \in R^{B×S×h×D_h}\)$ gets permuted to $\(Q \in R^{B×h×S×D_h}\)$

    Note: You'll do the same for the $\(V\)$ matrix and take care to transpose $\(K\)$ along the last two dimensions.
  
2. Computing Self-Attention

    Let $\(Q_i\)$, $\(K_i\)$, $\(V_i\)$ be the Queries, Keys, and Values for head $\(i\)$. You'll need to compute:
    $$
    \text{softmax}\left(\dfrac{Q_iK_i^T}{\sqrt{D_h}} + M\right)V_i
    $$
    with batched matrix multiplication (which we've implemented for you) across each batch and head. $\(M\)$ is the causal mask added to prevent your transformer from attending to positions in the future, which is crucial in an auto-regressive language model.

    Before returning, let $\(A \in R^{B×h×S×D_h}\)$ denote the output of self-attention. You'll need to:

    - Permute $\(A\)$ to $\(A \in R^{B×S×h×D_h}\)$
    - Reshape $\(A\)$ to $\(A \in R^{B×S×D}\)$

3. Finally pass self-attention output through the out projection layer



---

### FeedForward

We have implemented the feed-forward module for you. The feed-forward module consists of two linear layers with an activation in between. You can go through the implementation for reference.

---

### TransformerLayer

Combine the MultiHeadAttention and FeedForward modules to form one transformer layer. GPT-2 employs the **pre-LN architecture** (pre-layer normalization). Follow the **pre-LN variant** shown below:

![Transformer Layer Normalization](hw3/ln_transformers.png)  
*(a) Post-LN Transformer layer; (b) Pre-LN Transformer layer.*  

For more details, refer to [On Layer Normalization in the Transformer Architecture](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2002.04745.pdf).

---

### DecoderLM

![Decoder Transformer](hw3/decoder_transformer.png){ width="200px" }

*(Image from [Transformer Decoder](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.03762.pdf))*  


Combine all components to create the final model. Given an input tensor $\(X\)$ with shape 
$\((\text{batch size}, \text{sequence length})\)$:

1. Retrieve token and positional embeddings for \(X\).
2. Add the embeddings together ([Jurafsky and Martin, Chapter 10.1.3](https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/10.pdf)) and pass through a dropout layer.
3. Pass the resulting input shape $\((\text{batch size}, \text{sequence length}, \text{embedding dimension})\)$ through all transformer layers.
4. Apply a final LayerNorm.
5. Use a final linear layer to project the hidden dimension to the vocabulary size for inference or loss computation.

### Check implementation

After correctly implementing the functions, you should be able to pass tests marked as
multihead, transformerlayer, and decoderlm by running:
```bash
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_multihead_attention_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_transformer_layer_1_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_transformer_layer_2_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_decoder_lm_student"
```


## Problem 4: Machine Translation Pipeline (20 pts)

Implement a training pipeline of machine translation on IWSLT (De-En). You will need to implement the following functions in `project/run_machine_translation.py`:


### 1. `generate`

Generates target sequences for the given source sequences using the model, based on argmax decoding. Note that it runs generation on examples one-by-one instead of in a batched manner.

```python
def generate(model,
             examples,
             src_key,
             tgt_key,
             tokenizer,
             model_max_length,
             backend,
             desc):
    ...
```

#### Parameters
- `model`: The model used for generation.
- `examples`: The dataset examples containing source sequences.
- `src_key`: The key for accessing source texts in the examples.
- `tgt_key`: The key for accessing target texts in the examples.
- `tokenizer`: The tokenizer used for encoding texts.
- `model_max_length`: The maximum sequence length the model can handle.
- `backend`: The backend of minitorch tensors.
- `desc`: Description for the generation process (used in progress bars).

#### Returns
A list of texts as generated target sequences.

### Note
We recommend you going through the `collate_batch` and `loss_fn` functions in the file to understand the data processing and loss computation steps in the training pipeline.

### Test Performance
Once all blanks are filled, run:

```bash
python project/run_machine_translation.py
```

The outputs and BLEU scores will be saved in `./workdir_vocab10000_lr0.02_embd256`. You should get a BLEU score around 7 in the first epoch, and around 20 in 10 epochs. *Every epoch takes around an hour, and every training step takes around 25 seconds on A10G.*

#### Reference Performance

![Performance Chart](hw3/mt_performance.png)

### Submission
Please submit the whole `llmsys_s25_hw2` as a zip on Canvas. Your code will be automatically compiled and gra ded with private test cases.

Commit message:

Add in dev container for development on windows

README.md, after:

# Assignment 3: Transformer Architecture

We will continue adding modules to miniTorch framework. 
In this assignment, students will implement a decoder-only transformer architecture (GPT-2), train it on machine translation task (IWSLT14 German-English), and benchmark their implementation.

> **Development Container Setup**: This project includes a dev container configuration in the `.devcontainer` folder.  
> To use it, open this project in VS Code and click "Reopen in Container" when prompted.  
> This will set up a complete development environment with CUDA 12.1 and all required dependencies.  
> After the container is built, run `./.devcontainer/setup.sh` to complete the setup.

## Homework Setup

Clone the repository for the homework:  
[https://github.com/llmsystem/llmsys_f25_hw3](https://github.com/llmsystem/llmsys_f25_hw3)

## PSC Guide
For guidance on using PSC resources, refer to the following document:  
[PSC Guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FzNWon1GePQNCqjx3tiXU-FQtxeBDruvjwORWRHhoVs/edit?usp=sharing)


## Setting up Your Code

### Step 1: Install Requirements
Ensure you have Python 3.8+ installed. Install the required dependencies with the following commands:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.extra.txt
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Step 2: Install miniTorch
Install miniTorch in editable mode:

```bash
pip install -e .
```

---

### Issue: Aborted (core dumped) due to nvcc and NVIDIA Driver Incompatibility with PyTorch

If you encounter an **"Aborted (core dumped)"** error while running PyTorch, it is likely due to an **incompatibility between `nvcc` and the NVIDIA driver version** used by PyTorch. This happens when:
- `nvcc` (the CUDA compiler) is **newer than** the supported CUDA version in the NVIDIA driver.
- PyTorch is built for a different CUDA version than the one installed.

To **fix this issue, downgrade CUDA** to match the **highest supported version by your NVIDIA driver** and install the corresponding PyTorch version.

#### Solution: Downgrade CUDA and Avoid Core Dump Errors

One of the solutions is to install **CUDA 12.1**, which has compatible PyTorch builds.

##### 1. Uninstall Any Existing PyTorch Versions
```bash
pip uninstall torch torchvision torchaudio -y
```

##### 2. Load CUDA 12.1 Module
Since CUDA 12.1 is available on your system, load it by running:
```bash
module purge
module load cuda-12.1
```
Verify the CUDA version:
```bash
nvcc --version
nvidia-smi
```

##### 3. Install PyTorch for CUDA 12.1
```bash
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu121
```

##### 4. Verify Installation
Run the following Python script:
```python
import torch
print("PyTorch Version:", torch.__version__)
print("CUDA Available:", torch.cuda.is_available())
print("CUDA Version:", torch.version.cuda)
```
If `torch.cuda.is_available()` returns `False`, **recheck the CUDA installation**.




### Step 3: Copy Files from Assignment 1 & 2
Copy the following files from Assignment 1 to the specified locations:

- `autodiff.py` → `minitorch/autodiff.py`
- `run_sentiment.py` → `project/run_sentiment_linear.py`

**Note**: The suffix for the sentiment file is slightly different: `"_linear"`.

Copy the CUDA kernel file from Assignment 2:

- `combine.cu` → `src/combine.cu`

However, do not copy the entire `combine.cu` file. Instead, extract and transfer `only` the implementations of the following functions:

- `MatrixMultiplyKernel`
- `mapKernel`
- `zipKernel`
- `reduceKernel`

### Step 4: Changes in Assignment 3
We have made some changes in `combine.cu` and `cuda_kernel_ops.py` for Assignment 3 compared with Assignment 2 :

- GPU memory allocation, deallocation, and memory copying operations have been relocated from `cuda_kernel_ops.py` to `combine.cu`, covering both host-to-device and device-to-host transfers.
- The datatype for `Tensor._tensor._storage` has been changed from `numpy.float64` to `numpy.float32`.

### Step 5: Compile CUDA Kernels
Compile your CUDA kernels by running:

```bash
bash compile_cuda.sh
``` 

--- 


## Implementing a Decoder-only Transformer Model

You will be implementing a Decoder-only Transformer model in `modules_transformer.py`. This will require you to first implement additional modules in `modules_basic.py`, similar to the Linear module from Assignment 1.

We will recreate the GPT-2 architecture as described in [Language Models are Unsupervised Multitask Learners](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/language-models-are-unsupervised-multitask).

**Please read the implementation details section of the README file before starting.**



## Problem 1: Implementing Tensor Functions (20 pts)

You need to implement the following functions in `minitorch/nn.py`. Additional details are provided in the `README.md` and each function's docstring:

- **`logsumexp`**
- **`softmax_loss`**  

  The formula for the softmax loss (softmax + cross-entropy) is:  
  $$
\ell(z, y) = \log\left(\sum_{i=1}^k \exp(z_i)\right) - z_y
  $$

  Refer to [slide 5 here](https://llmsystem.github.io/llmsystem2024spring/assets/files/llmsys-03-autodiff-d3f8a17139dbf41fe16150b3d86ccdce.pdf) for more details.

### Softmax Loss Function

The input to the softmax loss(softmax + cross entropy) function consists of:

- **`logits`**: A (minibatch, C) tensor, where each row represents a sample containing raw logits before applying softmax.
- **`target`**: A (minibatch,) tensor, where each row corresponds to the class of a sample.  

You should utilize a combination of `logsumexp`, `one_hot`, and other tensor functions to compute this efficiently. (Our solution is only 3 lines long.)

**Note**:  
The function should return results without setting [`reduction=None`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss.html). The resulting output shape should be (minibatch,).


### Check implementation

After correctly implementing the functions, you should be able to pass tests marked as
logsumexp and softmax_loss by running:
```bash
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_logsumexp_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_softmax_loss_student"
```

## Problem 2: Implementing Basic Modules (20 pts)

Here are the modules you need to implement in `minitorch/modules_basic.py`:

1. **`Linear`**: You can use your implementation from Assignment 1 but adapt it slightly to account for the new `backend` argument.
   
2. **`Dropout`**: Applies dropout.  
   **Note**: If the flag `self.training` is false, do not zero out any values in the input tensor. To match the autograder seed, please use `np.random.binomial` to generate a mask.

3. **`LayerNorm1d`**: Applies layer normalization to a 2D tensor.

4. **`Embedding`**: Maps one-hot word vectors from a dictionary of fixed size to embeddings.

### Check implementation

After correctly implementing the functions, you should be able to pass tests marked as
linear, dropout, layernorm, and embedding by running:
```bash
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_linear_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_dropout_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_layernorm_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_embedding_student"
```

## Problem 3: Implementing a Decoder-only Transformer Language Model (40 pts)

Finally, you'll implement the GPT-2 architecture in `minitorch/modules_transformer.py`, utilizing four modules and your earlier work:

- **`MultiHeadAttention`**: Implements masked multi-head attention.
- **`FeedForward`**: Implements the feed-forward operation. [We have implemented this for you.]
- **`TransformerLayer`**: Implements a transformer layer with the pre-LN architecture.
- **`DecoderLM`**: Implements the full model with input and positional embeddings.

### MultiHeadAttention

GPT-2 implements multi-head attention, meaning each $\(K, Q, V\)$ tensor formed from $\(X\)$ is partitioned into $\(h\)$ heads. The self-attention operation is performed for each batch and head, and the output is reshaped to the correct shape. The final output is passed through an output projection layer.

1. Projecting $\(X\)$ into $\(Q, K^T, V\)$ in the `project_to_query_key_value` function.

    In the `project_to_query_key_value` function, the $\(K, Q, V\)$ matrices are formed by projecting the input $\(X \in R^{B×S×D}\)$ where $\(B\)$ is the batch size, $\(S\)$ is the sequence length, and $\(D\)$ the hidden dimension. Formally, let $\(h\)$ be the number of heads, $\(D\)$ be the dimension of the input, and $\(D_h\)$ be the dimension of each head where $\(D = h × D_h\)$:

    - $\(X \in R^{B×S×D}\)$ gets projected to $\(Q, K, V \in R^{B×S×D}\)$ *(Note: We could actually do this with a single layer and split the output into 3.)*
    - $\(Q \in R^{B×S×(h×D_h)}\) gets unraveled to \(Q \in R^{B×S×h×D_h}\)$
    - $\(Q \in R^{B×S×h×D_h}\)$ gets permuted to $\(Q \in R^{B×h×S×D_h}\)$

    Note: You'll do the same for the $\(V\)$ matrix and take care to transpose $\(K\)$ along the last two dimensions.
  
2. Computing Self-Attention

    Let $\(Q_i\)$, $\(K_i\)$, $\(V_i\)$ be the Queries, Keys, and Values for head $\(i\)$. You'll need to compute:
    $$
    \text{softmax}\left(\dfrac{Q_iK_i^T}{\sqrt{D_h}} + M\right)V_i
    $$
    with batched matrix multiplication (which we've implemented for you) across each batch and head. $\(M\)$ is the causal mask added to prevent your transformer from attending to positions in the future, which is crucial in an auto-regressive language model.

    Before returning, let $\(A \in R^{B×h×S×D_h}\)$ denote the output of self-attention. You'll need to:

    - Permute $\(A\)$ to $\(A \in R^{B×S×h×D_h}\)$
    - Reshape $\(A\)$ to $\(A \in R^{B×S×D}\)$

3. Finally pass self-attention output through the out projection layer



---

### FeedForward

We have implemented the feed-forward module for you. The feed-forward module consists of two linear layers with an activation in between. You can go through the implementation for reference.

---

### TransformerLayer

Combine the MultiHeadAttention and FeedForward modules to form one transformer layer. GPT-2 employs the **pre-LN architecture** (pre-layer normalization). Follow the **pre-LN variant** shown below:

![Transformer Layer Normalization](hw3/ln_transformers.png)  
*(a) Post-LN Transformer layer; (b) Pre-LN Transformer layer.*  

For more details, refer to [On Layer Normalization in the Transformer Architecture](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2002.04745.pdf).

---

### DecoderLM

![Decoder Transformer](hw3/decoder_transformer.png){ width="200px" }

*(Image from [Transformer Decoder](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.03762.pdf))*  


Combine all components to create the final model. Given an input tensor $\(X\)$ with shape 
$\((\text{batch size}, \text{sequence length})\)$:

1. Retrieve token and positional embeddings for \(X\).
2. Add the embeddings together ([Jurafsky and Martin, Chapter 10.1.3](https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/10.pdf)) and pass through a dropout layer.
3. Pass the resulting input shape $\((\text{batch size}, \text{sequence length}, \text{embedding dimension})\)$ through all transformer layers.
4. Apply a final LayerNorm.
5. Use a final linear layer to project the hidden dimension to the vocabulary size for inference or loss computation.

### Check implementation

After correctly implementing the functions, you should be able to pass tests marked as
multihead, transformerlayer, and decoderlm by running:
```bash
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_multihead_attention_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_transformer_layer_1_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_transformer_layer_2_student"
python -m pytest -l -v -k "test_decoder_lm_student"
```


## Problem 4: Machine Translation Pipeline (20 pts)

Implement a training pipeline of machine translation on IWSLT (De-En). You will need to implement the following functions in `project/run_machine_translation.py`:


### 1. `generate`

Generates target sequences for the given source sequences using the model, based on argmax decoding. Note that it runs generation on examples one-by-one instead of in a batched manner.

```python
def generate(model,
             examples,
             src_key,
             tgt_key,
             tokenizer,
             model_max_length,
             backend,
             desc):
    ...
```

#### Parameters
- `model`: The model used for generation.
- `examples`: The dataset examples containing source sequences.
- `src_key`: The key for accessing source texts in the examples.
- `tgt_key`: The key for accessing target texts in the examples.
- `tokenizer`: The tokenizer used for encoding texts.
- `model_max_length`: The maximum sequence length the model can handle.
- `backend`: The backend of minitorch tensors.
- `desc`: Description for the generation process (used in progress bars).

#### Returns
A list of texts as generated target sequences.

### Note
We recommend you going through the `collate_batch` and `loss_fn` functions in the file to understand the data processing and loss computation steps in the training pipeline.

### Test Performance
Once all blanks are filled, run:

```bash
python project/run_machine_translation.py
```

The outputs and BLEU scores will be saved in `./workdir_vocab10000_lr0.02_embd256`. You should get a BLEU score around 7 in the first epoch, and around 20 in 10 epochs. *Every epoch takes around an hour, and every training step takes around 25 seconds on A10G.*

#### Reference Performance

![Performance Chart](hw3/mt_performance.png)

### Submission
Please submit the whole `llmsys_s25_hw2` as a zip on Canvas. Your code will be automatically compiled and gra ded with private test cases.
